Add SEO checklist and preparation chapter (#151)
infinum/wordpress-handbook: Project management/SEO preparation.md

SEO stands for search engine optimization. It's a way of optimizing data on your website so that the search engines can recognize it and drive organic traffic to it.

Even though we are using [Yoast SEO](https://wordpress.org/plugins/wordpress-seo/) plugin to handle most of the SEO-relevant metrics (from content analysis to meta tags, and structured data), there are some things that we need to make sure are set on the website before releasing it live.

We have two scenarios we'll have to cover:

> 1. a new website without the prior existence on the internet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. a new website without prior existence on the Internet
```

2. an existing website that we need to migrate and regain or improve their existing search ranking.

### New website

When we are creating a new website, we need to make sure that the **client** is aware of **how the content is structured** on the website. Some of the most important things to be aware of are

- Having different heading sizes in the correct order (H1 -> H2 -> H3 -> H4)
- No more than one H1 tag
- Images in the content with set alt tags

> - Enough of inbound and outbound links

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Enough inbound and outbound links
```

- Set meta descriptions
- Images shouldn't be too large

> - Set the OG images for the page/post

Reviewer: Perhaps OG isn't a well known acronym for people who aren't in the loop. Consider explaining that it refers to Open Graph or linking to https://ogp.me/

> Don't use SVGs for the featured images or OG images, as they won't get rendered on the social networks and search results

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Don't use SVGs for featured images or OG images, as they won't be rendered on social networks and in search results

```

Yoast SEO plugin will warn if these are not properly set, but it's good to have them in mind nonetheless.

> Make sure content editors are aware **not to put too large images**. Anything over 200 KB is considered large by Google lighthouse and will be counted as a penalty when calculating a page score.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure content editors are aware **not to put too large images**. Anything over 200 KB is considered large by Google Lighthouse and will be counted as a penalty when calculating a page score.

```

> Besides content, the client should set the proper meta description for every page and post, keywords for the post, and social images (OG images). These can all be set from the Yoast meta box at the bottom of the post/page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Besides content, the client should set proper meta descriptions for every page and post, keywords for posts, and social images (OG images). All of these can be set from the Yoast meta box at the bottom of the post/page.

```

#### Developer notes

> Developers should make sure that the correct permalink structure is set (Settings / Permalink Settings - post name), and that all the settings are correctly set up for the Yoast plugin (organization images, social details, Google verification code, etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Developers should make sure that a correct permalink structure is set (Settings / Permalink Settings - post name), and that all Yoast settings are correctly set up (organization images, social details, Google verification code, etc.).
```

Using the `the` article implies there's a single correct permalink structure?

> By default, WordPress will generate a `robots.txt` file that will instruct the crawlers which pages should be crawled. You should add the `sitemap.xml` file to the `robots.txt` list as well. You can do that using the following snippet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, WordPress will generate a `robots.txt` file that will instruct crawlers which pages should be crawled. You should add the `sitemap.xml` file to the `robots.txt` list as well. You can do that using the following snippet

```

```php
<?php

/**
 * The file that holds the SeoFunctionality class.
 *
 * @package ProjectNamespace\Seo;
 */

declare(strict_types=1);

namespace ProjectNamespace\Seo;

use ProjectNamespaceVendor\EightshiftLibs\Services\ServiceInterface;

/**
 * SeoFunctionality class.
 */
class SeoFunctionality implements ServiceInterface

{

	/**
	 * Register all the hooks
	 *
	 * @return void
	 */

	public function register(): void

	{
		\add_filter('robots_txt', [$this, 'robotsFilter'], 100, 2);
	}

	/**
	 * Robots txt modification
	 *
	 * Add the sitemap to the robots.
	 *
	 * @param string $output The robots.txt output.
	 * @param bool $public Whether the site is considered "public".
	 *
	 * @return string Modified output of the robots.txt file.
	 */

	public function robotsFilter(string $output, bool $public): string
	{
		$homeUrl = get_home_url();

		$output .= "Sitemap: {$homeUrl}/sitemap_index.xml\n";

		return $output;
	}

}

```

> This will add the sitemap to the robots file. A sitemap is generated by the Yoast plugin and is a crucial way to tell search engine crawlers which pages should be crawled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will add the sitemap to the robots file. The sitemap is generated by the Yoast plugin and is a crucial way to tell search engine crawlers which pages should be crawled.

```

Once we check for the errors using automated tools (Lighthouse, Screaming Frog, Ahrefs, Semrush) we should fix those and resubmit the new `sitemap.xml` in Google Search Console (so it can be reindexed).

### The existing website (content migration)

We won't be covering the content migration itself here, as that is covered in the other chapter of the handbook (link will be added).

Here we'll cover things that developers need to be careful about when doing the migration.

Before doing the migration we should **work with the Growth team** in detail so that they can get all the relevant information about the existing site.

They will give us information about the site's health (number of dead links, existing SEO ranking, top 50 pages/posts on the old website, etc.)

When migrating the content it's crucial to **get all the old links** from the website associated with the new website. That means that the old permalink should be added to the migration data, as well as some extra identifiers such as old post ID, and stored as metadata for every imported post.

> This will allow us to easily fetch all the new and old permalinks that we can easily add to the redirect list. Also, it would be good that the **old permalinks that had the biggest SEO score** on the old website **remain the same** on the new one if possible (if not prioritize that their redirects are set up correctly).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will allow us to easily fetch all the new and old permalinks that we can easily add to the redirect list. Also, it would be good that the **old permalinks that had the biggest SEO score** on the old website **remain the same** on the new one if possible (if not, prioritize that their redirects are set up correctly).

```
